
# ESG Assessment Methodology
## Prompt
```
I'm trying to think about new ways to assess a company's ESG strengths and
weaknesses. I'm thinking of creating a mapping to the UN's Sustainable
Development Goals and going goal by goal to come up with a quantifiable metric
e.g. "quality adjusted life years" effective altruism style to see how strong
the company is in each metric. I want to use a similar methodology that givewell
uses to assess chartities when it looks at cost per each "human life saved".
```

## Response
### Chain-of-Though/Reasoning Chain (<think>{cot}</think>)
```
Okay, so I'm trying to figure out new ways to assess a company's ESG strengths
and weaknesses. I remember reading about the UN's Sustainable Development Goals
(SDGs) and thought maybe aligning a company's performance with these could be a
good approach. I also came across the idea of using quantifiable metrics,
similar to how effective altruism uses "quality-adjusted life years" (QALYs) to
measure impact. I think GiveWell does something like this when they evaluate
charities by looking at the cost per life saved. So, my initial thought is to
create a mapping of ESG factors to specific SDGs. For each SDG, I can define a
metric that quantifies the company's impact. For example, for SDG 3 (Good Health
and Well-Being), maybe I can use QALYs to measure how a company's actions affect
people's health. But then I'm not sure if QALYs are the best fit for every goal.
Maybe some other metric would be better for, say, SDG 13 (Climate Action), like
tons of CO2 reduced or something. I'm also thinking about how to structure this.
Maybe each SDG would have its own set of metrics, and then I can aggregate them
to get an overall score for the company. But I'm not sure if that's feasible
because each SDG is quite different in scope. For example, SDG 1 is about
poverty, and SDG 4 is about education. The metrics for each would have different
units and scales, so combining them might not make sense. I should probably look
at existing ESG frameworks to see how they handle this. I know GRI and SASB are
popular, but they don't necessarily map directly to the SDGs. Maybe I can take
the best from these frameworks and align them with the SDGs. That way, I can
have a more comprehensive assessment that's still tied to the global goals.
Another thought is about normalization. If I use different metrics for each SDG,
how do I compare them? Maybe I can normalize each metric so that they all fall
on a similar scale, but I'm not sure how to do that without losing the meaning
of each metric. Alternatively, I could create a weighted score where each SDG
contributes a certain percentage based on its importance or relevance to the
company's industry. I'm also concerned about data availability. Some metrics
might require data that companies don't typically disclose. For example, not all
companies report their carbon footprint in a detailed way, so using tons of CO2
might be tricky. Maybe I can use proxies or estimate based on industry averages
if the data isn't available. But that introduces uncertainty and might make the
assessment less accurate. Cost per impact is another aspect I need to consider.
For each metric, I can calculate how much it costs the company to achieve a
certain level of impact. This would help in comparing the efficiency of
different initiatives. However, getting the cost data might be difficult, and
companies might not be transparent about their spending in these areas. I also
wonder about the balance between positive and negative impacts. Some companies
might have strong positive contributions to one SDG but negative impacts on
another. How do I account for that? Maybe by subtracting negative impacts from
positive ones or having separate scores for each to give a more nuanced view.
Engagement and materiality are other factors. Not all SDGs might be equally
relevant for every company. For example, a tech company might have a bigger
impact on SDG 9 (Industry, Innovation, and Infrastructure) than on SDG 2 (Zero
Hunger). So, I should consider which SDGs are most material to each company's
operations and prioritize those in the assessment. Benchmarking against industry
peers could provide context, but I'm not sure if each industry would have the
same set of relevant SDGs. Maybe I can create industry-specific mappings where
certain SDGs are weighted more heavily. This would make the assessment more
tailored and relevant. I'm also thinking about how to present this information.
A heatmap could visually show where a company is strong and where it's weak. But
I need to make sure the metrics are clear and that the heatmap doesn't
oversimplify the complexities of each SDG. Lastly, I'm considering how to handle
updates and adjustments. As companies evolve and new data becomes available, the
metrics might need to be refined. I should build in a process for regular
reviews and updates to keep the assessment accurate and relevant. Overall, I
think the key steps are: mapping ESG factors to SDGs, defining quantifiable
metrics for each, normalizing or weighting these metrics, considering data
availability and cost, accounting for both positive and negative impacts,
focusing on materiality and benchmarking, and presenting the information
clearly. I need to start by aligning each ESG factor with the most relevant SDG
and then develop specific metrics for each. After that, I can work on
aggregation, normalization, and presentation methods.
```

### Final Output
```
To create a comprehensive ESG assessment framework aligned with the UN's
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), follow this structured approach: ### 1.
**Mapping ESG Factors to SDGs** - **Objective:** Align each ESG factor with the
most relevant SDG. For example, map health-related ESG factors to SDG 3 (Good
Health and Well-Being). - **Considerations:** Use existing frameworks like GRI
and SASB to inform mappings, ensuring each SDG is comprehensively addressed. ###
2. **Defining Quantifiable Metrics** - **Metric Development:** For each SDG,
define a specific metric. Examples include QALYs for SDG 3 and tons of CO2
reduced for SDG 13. - **Industry Relevance:** Tailor metrics to industry-
specific impacts, such as focusing on SDG 9 for tech companies. ### 3.
**Handling Data Availability** - **Data Sources:** Use company disclosures,
industry reports, and third-party data. Consider proxies or estimates when
direct data is unavailable. - **Transparency:** Acknowledge data limitations and
uncertainties in the assessment. ### 4. **Cost Per Impact Analysis** -
**Efficiency Metrics:** Calculate the cost per unit of impact (e.g., cost per
ton of CO2 reduced) to assess initiative efficiency. - **Data Challenges:**
Address potential lack of cost data by using estimates or industry benchmarks.
### 5. **Balancing Positive and Negative Impacts** - **Net Impact Approach:**
Subtract negative impacts from positive ones within each SDG or maintain
separate scores for a nuanced view. ### 6. **Materiality and Benchmarking** -
**Materiality Focus:** Prioritize SDGs most relevant to each companyâ€™s
operations. - **Industry-Specific Benchmarks:** Compare companies against peers,
considering industry-specific SDG relevance. ### 7. **Normalization and
Aggregation** - **Weighted Scoring:** Assign weights to each SDG based on
materiality and industry relevance. - **Avoid Oversimplification:** Use
normalization methods that preserve the meaning of each metric. ### 8.
**Presentation and Reporting** - **Visualization:** Use heatmaps to visually
represent strengths and weaknesses, ensuring clarity and avoiding
oversimplification. - **Transparency:** Clearly explain methodologies, data
sources, and limitations. ### 9. **Updates and Adjustments** - **Regular
Reviews:** Periodically update metrics and mappings to reflect new data and
company evolution. ### 10. **Implementation Steps** - **Pilot Testing:** Test
the framework with a few companies to refine metrics and methodologies. -
**Continuous Improvement:** Gather feedback and iterate to enhance accuracy and
relevance. By following this structured approach, you can develop a robust ESG
assessment framework that provides meaningful insights into a company's
contributions to the SDGs, balancing quantifiable metrics with industry-specific
nuances.
```
