
# Future World Capital
## Prompt
```
In 20 years it is said that the world will consolidate into a singular country.
What should the capital city of the world be in the future? What is the evidence
supporting this.
```

## Response
### Chain-of-Though/Reasoning Chain (<think>{cot}</think>)
```
Okay, so I'm trying to figure out what the capital city of the world would be if
the world becomes a single country in 20 years. Hmm, that's an interesting
question. I know the user mentioned some cities like New York, London, Brussels,
Singapore, Beijing, Dubai, Geneva, and Nairobi. Each has its pros and cons. Let
me think through this step by step. First, I should consider what makes a city a
good candidate for a global capital. Maybe factors like economic influence,
political neutrality, infrastructure, cultural diversity, and maybe even
environmental sustainability. Also, the city's location and accessibility could
play a role. Let me break it down. New York is a major economic hub, home to the
UN, and very diverse. But is it too tied to the US? If the world becomes one
country, maybe the capital should be more neutral. Plus, the US has a lot of
influence, so maybe other regions would prefer a different city. London is
another financial center, but it's also in the West. Similar neutrality concerns
as New York. Also, post-Brexit, the UK's position in the world might be a bit
uncertain. Brussels is already the capital of the EU, which is a big political
union. That's a point in its favor. It's seen as a place where different
countries come together. But the EU isn't the whole world, so would other
regions accept Brussels? It's in Europe, which might not be ideal for a truly
global capital. Singapore is in Asia, which is a growing economic power. It's a
city-state known for its efficiency and stability. Plus, it's strategically
located for trade. But it's a small island, so maybe it lacks the space needed
for a global capital. Beijing is a major city in China, which is a rising
superpower. It has a lot of political and economic weight. But China has its own
political system, and would other countries be okay with the capital being
there? There might be concerns about bias or control. Dubai is a modern city
with great infrastructure and a hub for business. It's in the Middle East, which
is centrally located between Europe, Asia, and Africa. It's also a neutral place
in some ways because it's a city-state focused on business and tourism. But I'm
not sure about its political neutrality or how it's perceived globally. Geneva
is known for being the seat of many international organizations like the UN and
the Red Cross. It has a strong history of diplomacy and neutrality.
Switzerland's neutral stance in global affairs could make Geneva a good
candidate. But it's in Europe, which again might not be ideal for a truly global
representation. Nairobi is in Africa, a continent that's often seen as the
future demographic hub. It's already a center for international organizations
focused on Africa. However, it might not have the same level of infrastructure
or global recognition as the other cities mentioned. So, considering all these
factors, I think the main points are neutrality, accessibility, infrastructure,
and representation. Geneva seems strong on neutrality and existing international
presence. Singapore and Dubai are good for economic and strategic reasons.
Brussels has EU ties, but it's still in Europe. If I had to pick, maybe a city
that's more centrally located and neutral. Perhaps a new city that's built
specifically for this purpose? But the user didn't mention that. So among the
existing cities, Geneva might be the best choice because of its neutrality and
existing role in international affairs. Alternatively, Dubai could be a good
compromise because of its location and modern infrastructure, even if it's not
as politically neutral. I should also think about the future. In 20 years, maybe
climate change or other factors will influence the choice. Cities with better
sustainability might be preferable. Singapore is known for its environmental
policies, so that could be a plus. Another angle is language. English is widely
spoken in many of these cities, which would help in a global setting. But other
languages might also be important depending on the region. I'm also wondering
about the political feasibility. Would countries agree to have the capital in a
certain city? For example, choosing Beijing might face resistance from Western
countries, while choosing New York might be seen as favoring the West. In
conclusion, after weighing these factors, I think Geneva and Singapore are
strong contenders because of their neutrality, infrastructure, and existing
international roles. Dubai is also a possibility due to its central location and
modernity. But each has its drawbacks, like regional bias or lack of political
neutrality.
```

### Final Output
```
In considering the potential capital of a future global government, several
factors such as neutrality, accessibility, infrastructure, and representation
are crucial. After evaluating various cities, here is the conclusion: 1.
**Geneva**: As a city with a strong history of neutrality and home to numerous
international organizations, Geneva offers a diplomatic and impartial
environment. However, its location in Europe might not be ideal for global
representation. 2. **Singapore**: Known for its efficiency, strategic location
in Asia, and environmental policies, Singapore is a viable option. Its economic
influence and sustainability practices are significant advantages. 3. **Dubai**:
Centrally located with modern infrastructure, Dubai's neutrality as a business
hub is notable. However, perceptions of political neutrality could be a concern.
Considering these factors, **Geneva** emerges as a strong candidate due to its
neutrality and existing international presence. However, **Singapore** is also
compelling because of its strategic location and sustainability efforts.
Ultimately, the choice may depend on balancing regional considerations with
global needs.
```
