
# Target Market Recommendation
## Prompt
```
A tech start-up has developed technology which automatically creates a portfolio
of stocks based on their risk profile. The start-up needs to decide which
segment of the retail investor industry they should target. Prepare a three-
paragraph executive summary of which market the start-up should target and why.
Focus on age, diversification across sectors, ESG trends, company risks, alpha,
beta and modern portfolio theory when justifying your recommendations.
```

## Response
### Chain-of-Though/Reasoning Chain (<think>{cot}</think>)
```
<|MISSING_STUDENT_INPUT/OUTPUT|>
```

### Final Output
```
**Executive Summary** The tech start-up should target the younger, digitally-
native segment of the retail investor market, specifically Millennials and Gen Z
investors. This demographic is increasingly taking control of their financial
decisions and is more likely to adopt automated, tech-driven solutions for
portfolio management. These investors are also more risk-aware and value
diversification across sectors, aligning well with the start-up’s technology,
which can optimize portfolios based on risk profiles. Additionally, younger
investors are driving the demand for Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG)
investments, a trend that the start-up can capitalize on by incorporating ESG
criteria into its portfolio construction process. By targeting this segment, the
start-up can position itself as a leader in meeting the needs of a growing,
tech-savvy investor base. The start-up’s technology is particularly well-suited
for younger investors who are seeking diversification and risk management
without the need for active human intervention. Modern Portfolio Theory (MPT)
underpins the start-up’s approach, ensuring that portfolios are optimized for
risk-adjusted returns. By leveraging diversification across sectors, the
technology can effectively manage beta (market risk) while potentially
generating alpha (excess returns) through sophisticated asset allocation.
Furthermore, younger investors are more comfortable with algorithmic decision-
making and are less likely to be swayed by emotional biases, making them ideal
users for an automated portfolio builder. The start-up’s ability to dynamically
adjust portfolios in response to market conditions also mitigates company-
specific risks, ensuring that investors are not overly exposed to any single
sector or asset class. In addition to targeting younger investors, the start-up
should emphasize its ability to deliver ESG-aligned portfolios, a key
differentiator in today’s market. Younger investors are increasingly
prioritizing sustainability and ethical considerations in their investment
decisions, and the start-up’s technology can seamlessly integrate ESG screens
into the portfolio-building process. By catering to this demand, the start-up
can attract a loyal customer base while also positioning itself as a responsible
and forward-thinking financial services provider. Overall, targeting Millennials
and Gen Z investors offers the start-up a compelling opportunity to capitalize
on demographic trends, technological adoption, and shifting investor
preferences, setting it up for long-term success in the retail investment space.
```
